Aren't in today's lecture we're going to be going over how to create highlights and shadows in your
linear perspective drawings.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing we want to do is we want to go ahead and add in our horizon line and then we're going
to quickly draw a cube that we can use to apply highlights and shadows too.
So once we get our horizon line we need to find our two vanishing points or you can even do this with
one point perspective and then we want to go ahead and draw in that vertical line for the corner of
our box.
So I'm going to draw it in right about here and then I'm going to go ahead and connect those to my vanishing
points.
All right.
Perfect next to what we want to do is we want to go ahead and add in those horizontal lines for the
other edges of our box.
So out and one right here then I'll have another one here on the other side.
So and then we can go out and solidify these bottom and top lines.
Great.
So now we have a cube.
The next thing we need to do is we need to decide where our light source is coming from.
So I'm going to make my light source coming from up here on this topside so I'm going to come all the
way up to almost the top of my page and put a little dot there to represent my lightsource.
The next thing I want to do is now that I know where my light sources I need to add in my core and mid-tone
shadow.
No we're not going to see our highlight because it's on the top surface and we can't see the surface
because of the way the perspective is.
But we are going to see our core and mid-tone shadow.
So our core chateaus going to go on this side of our box because our light source is on the opposite
side and then the side can be our mid-tone.
So let's go ahead and fill those in.
Great.
So now we have our core châteaux intermit shadow drawn in there.
The next thing we want to do is we want to add any cast shadow now adding in casts shadows on linear
perspective is very interesting.
So what we need to do first is we need to go ahead and draw a vertical line coming straight down from
our light source.
So I want to go ahead and in my ruler up with that light source and come straight down.
So all the way down to my horizon line and actually lines up right with the edge of my box.
That means go ahead and put the little point right there on my horizon line.
And then what we want to do next is we want to go ahead and draw a line from our light source all the
way to each one of these top corners.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So our first one is just going to basically come straight down because it just so happens that a light
source is lined up directly with this edge of our box.
Now it's not always going to be like this but in this case it is.
We'll try another example after this.
Just so you can see a different scenario of creating the cast shadows and then your perspective.
Will do this last corner.
Great.
Next what we want to do is we want to draw a line coming from at this point on our horizon line to the
bottom three corners.
So this one we already have the line drawn because it's going to be the same straight line then this
one needs to come to that point.
So we'll go ahead and draw that in and we can stop drawing our line.
Once it gets to Right There were these two lines cross.
So where this middle line crosses on the bottom and this middle line crosses on the top we can go ahead
and end or line because that's the point we're looking for the must go ahead and do the last one.
So we'll line it up with this blast corner and we can go ahead and draw that in until it crosses with
this line next to what we need to do is we need to go ahead and connect these points and we can actually
see the crossing point here.
So we're just going about a guesstimate where these would be crossing.
So let's go ahead and take a ruler and we'll connect each one of these points so we'll connect from
there to there and then we just need to guess to me about where these two are crossing.
So these are crossing at about that distance.
And since this one is a little bit further away the surface or this edge is going to be a little bit
shorter.
So we want to probably come to about there and then go ahead and draw a line from here to there.
Just like so and so now we have the shape of our cast shadow.
Now what we can do is we can go ahead and fill that in.
All right.
Great.
So now we asked the cast a shadow for our box in perspective.
Now let's try another one because since this light source was right above the edge of our box it kind
of gave us a very strange scenario that you won't usually run into.
So let's go ahead and try creating a box in a different position on our page.
That way we get a different shadow on it.
We don't get this weird thing happening here.
So let's try it in a box right over here and I'm just going to follow the same perspective on the same
line so just go ahead and draw a vertical line right there and then I'll draw a second vertical line
right down here and then we can go ahead and connect these two corners back to our horizon line like
so.
And I'm not going to extend all the way I'll just extend it part of the way.
So that way I can just go ahead and connect another vertical line right there.
All right.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and solidify all of these lines.
So there are a lot darker and thicker
but perfect.
So now what we need to do is we need to decide where our highlights and shadows are going to be.
So in this case we're not really going to see our highlight but we will see our core shadow and our
mid-tone.
So let's go ahead and fill those in
are great.
Now let's go ahead and add in our cast shadows.
So again we're going to do the same thing we did on this box and we're just going to go ahead and draw
a line from our light source to each top corner of our box.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we'll draw from here to there.
So draw from here to there number draw to our last corner.
All right.
Perfect next.
Let's go ahead and do the same before our bottom corners so I'm going to go ahead and come to this point
right here on my horizon line and I'm going to go ahead and draw to this first the bottom corner.
And I can draw that until it crosses with this line right here which is my first line to that corner
and then we'll go ahead and do the same thing for the next corner.
And we can stop there because that's where it crosses and then go ahead and do the same thing for our
last one so we'll go ahead and come to this last corner here.
I'll draw that line across there until it crosses with this line.
And now what we want to do is we want to go ahead and connect this point right there this point in at
this point.
So let's go ahead and connect those
that will connect this last one.
So and now we have the sheep for our cast show.
Now let's go ahead and fill that in with our cast a shadow value.
Great.
So now we have that cast shadow in perspective.
Now if you wanted to you can go add in a race away.
All of these guidelines which if you're doing a final product drawing that you definitely want to do
that.
But for now I'm just going to leave him there and your assignment for this lecture is to go ahead and
draw a cube in 2 point perspective than at a light source and then figure out where your course shadow
is where your mid-tone shadows.
And if you can see the highlight where your highlight is once you do that then I want you to go ahead
and use your light source to create a cast shadow in perspective.
And then I want you to go ahead and post that to either the Q and A section of the Course or the Facebook
group.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one where we're
going to learn how to draw round objects in perspective.